This repository contains data and code accompanying Brouwer *et al.*, "Infectious disease modeling for public health practice: projections, scenarios, and uncertainty in three phases of outbreak response."

**Summary:** Public health departments need evidence-backed projections and scenarios to support decision making in infectious disease outbreaks. However, traditional infectious disease models are often not readily deployable or responsive to the urgent questions and priorities of public health departments or health systems. Moreover, uncertainty in model outputs is frequently misrepresented, undermining trust among public health practitioners and the public. To address these issues, we, the Insight Net Modeling Guidance for Public Health Working Group, used early COVID-19 data from Michigan to illustrate practical and responsive modeling approaches to answer urgent questions in each of three key phases of response to an emerging outbreak: prior to local introduction, early exponential growth, and established transmission with potential interventions. In each phase, we integrate case, hospitalization, and death data and capture ranges of plausible future trajectories. These models, which produce status quo and scenario projections, are intended to inform planning and motivate action rather than predict precise future outcomes. Importantly, this work offers guidance to focus modeling efforts and provides clear, reproducible examples for how to fit and implement these models, ultimately serving as both a conceptual guide and practical toolkit to support more transparent, timely, and appropriate use of models in outbreak response.

**Files:**
- `Michigan_data.csv` Data on cases, hospitalizations, and deaths from SARS-CoV-2 infection in Michigan 2020-22.
- `Phase 1 case study.qmd` *Preliminary projections before local spread.* Before an expected outbreak has been detected locally, STLT health departments can use models to understand the potential speed and magnitude of local spread, supporting advanced planning, requests for funding or supplies, and communication with stakeholders. In this phase, exponential growth models adequately capture potential spread. Our models provide preliminary projections based on information from historical or ongoing outbreaks.
- `Phase 2 case study.qmd` *Local exponential growth.* Once local transmission has been sustained for several weeks and the epidemic is growing exponentially, STLTs health departments need local, short-term projections. Our models provide short-term exponential projections with parameters informed by recent, local data.
- `Phase 3 case study.qmd` *Established transmission with potential interventions* If the outbreak continues to spread, STLT health departments need to consider and evaluate a variety of possible interventions and scenarios to better guide their decision making. Mechanistic infectious disease models are well-suited both to capturing realistic dynamics and uncertainty in status-quo projections and to providing projections under alternative scenarios of interest. 
